cybercrime is out of control it's
everywhere we hear about it every single
day this year over two billion records
lost or stolen and last year 100 million
of us mostly Americans lost our health
insurance data to fees myself included
now what's particularly concerning about
this is that in most cases it was months
before anyone even reported that these
records were stolen so if you watch the
evening news you would think that most
of this is espionage or nation-state
activity and well some of it is
espionage you see is an accepted
international practice but in this case
it is only a small portion of the
problem that we're dealing with how
often do we hear about a breach followed
by it was the result of a sophisticated
nation-state attack well often that is
companies not being willing to own up to
their own lackluster security practices
there is also a widely held belief that
by blaming an attack on a nation-state
you are putting regulators at bay at
least for a period of time so where is
all of this coming from well the United
Nations estimates that 80% of it is from
highly organized and ultra sophisticated
criminal gangs to date
this represents one of the largest
illegal economies in the world topping
out at now get this four hundred and
forty five billion dollars now let me
put that in perspective for all of you
four hundred and forty five billion
dollars is larger than the GDP of a
hundred and sixty nations including
Ireland Finland Denmark and Portugal to
name a few so how does this work how do
these criminals operate well let me tell
you a little story about a year ago our
security researchers were tracking a
somewhat ordinary but sophisticated
banking Trojan called the direwolf the
direwolf would get on your computer via
you clicking on a link in a phishing
email that you probably shouldn't have
it would then sit and wait it would wait
until you've logged into your bank
account and when you did the bad guys
would reach in steal your credentials
and then use that to steal your money
now this sounds terrible but the reality
is in the security industry this form of
attack is somewhat commonplace however
the direwolf had two distinctly
different personalities one for these
small transactions but it took on an
entirely different persona if you are in
the business of moving large scale wire
transfers and here's what would happen
you start the process of issuing a wire
transfer and up and your browser would
pop your screen from your bank
indicating that there's a problem with
your account and that you need to call
the bank immediately along with the
fraud the number to the bank's fraud
department so you pick up the phone and
you call and after going through you
know kind of the normal voice prompts
you're met with an english-speaking
operator hello I'll total mutual bank
how can I help you and you go through
the process like you do every time you
call your bank of giving
your name and your account number going
through the security checks to verify
you are who you said you are now most of
us may not know this but in many
large-scale wire transfers it requires
two people to sign off on the wire
transfer so the operator then asks you
to get the second person on the line and
goes through the same set of
verifications and checks sounds normal
right only one problem you're not
talking to the bank you're talking to
the criminals they had built-in
english-speaking help desk fake overlays
to the banking website and this was so
flawlessly executed that they were
moving between a half a million and a
million and a half dollars per attempt
into their criminal coffers now these
criminal organizations operate like
highly regimented legitimate businesses
their employees work Monday through
Friday
they take the weekends off how do we
know this we know this because our
security researchers see repeated spikes
of malware on a Friday afternoon the bad
guys after a long weekend with the wife
and kids come back in to see how well
things went the dark web is where they
spend their time that is the term used
to describe the anonymous underbelly of
the Internet where thieves can operate
with anonymity and without detection
here they peddle their attack software
and share information on new attack
techniques you can buy everything there
from a base level attack to a much more
advanced version in fact in many cases
you even see gold silver and bronze
levels of service you can check
references you can even buy attacks that
come with a money-back guarantee if
you're not successful
now these environments these
marketplaces they look like an Amazon or
an eBay you see products prices ratings
and reviews now of course if you're
going to buy an attack you're going to
buy it from a reputable criminal with
good ratings right
this isn't any different than checking
on Yelp or TripAdvisor before going to a
new restaurant so here is an example
this is an actual screenshot of a vendor
selling malware notice they're a vendor
level 4 they have a trust level of 6
they've had 400 positive reviews in the
last year and only 2 negative reviews in
the last month we even see things like
licensing terms here's an example of a
site you can go to if you want to change
your identity they will sell you a fake
ID fake passports but note the legally
binding terms for purchasing your fake
ID give me a break
what are they going to do sue you if you
violate them this occurred a couple of
months ago one of our security
researchers was looking at a new Android
malware application that we had
discovered it was called bilal bot now
in a blog post she positioned below bot
as a new inexpensive and beta
alternative to the much more advanced GM
bot that was commonplace in the criminal
underground now this review did not sit
well with the authors of bla BOTS so
they wrote her this very email pleading
their case and making the argument that
they felt that she had evaluated an
older version and they asked her to
please update her blog with more
accurate information and even offered to
do an interview to describe to her in
detail how their attack software was now
far better than the competition so look
you don't have to like what they do but
you do have to respect the
entrepreneurial nature of their
endeavors
so how are we going to stop this it's
not like we're going to be able to
identify who's responsible remember they
operate with anonymity and outside the
reach of the law we're certainly not
going to be able to prosecute the
offenders
I would propose that we need a
completely new approach and that
approach needs to be centered on the
idea that we need to change the
economics for the bad guys and to give
you a perspective on how this can work
let's think of the response we see to a
health care pandemic SARS Ebola bird flu
Vika what is the top priority it's
knowing who is infected and how the
disease is spreading now governments
private institutions hospitals
physicians everyone responds openly and
quickly this is a collective and
altruistic effort to stop the spread in
its tracks and to inform anyone not
infected how to protect or inoculate
themselves unfortunately this is not at
all
what we see in response to a cyberattack
organizations are far more likely to
keep information on that attack to
themselves why because they're worried
about competitive advantage litigation
or regulation we need to effectively
democratize threat intelligence data we
need to get all of these organizations
to open up and share what is in their
private arsenal of information the bad
guys are moving fast we've got to move
fast
sir and the best way to do that is to
open up and share data on what's
happening let's think about this in the
construct of security professionals
remember their program right into their
DNA to keep secrets we've got to turn
that thinking on its head we've got to
get governments private institutions and
security companies willing to share
information at speed and here's why
because if you share the information
it's equivalent to inoculation and if
you're not sharing you're actually part
of the problem because you're increasing
the odds that other people could be
impacted by the same attack techniques
but there's an even bigger benefit by
destroying criminal devices closer to
real-time we break their plants we
inform the people they aim to hurt far
sooner than they had ever anticipated we
ruin their reputations we crush their
ratings and reviews we make cybercrime
not pay we change the economics for the
bad guys but to do this a first mover
was required someone to change the
thinking in the security industry
overall so about a year ago my
colleagues and I had a radical idea what
if IBM were to take our data we had one
of the largest threat intelligence
databases in the world and open it up it
had information not just on what had
happened in the past but what was
happening in near-real-time what if we
were to publish it all openly on the
Internet
well as you can imagine this got quite a
reaction first came the lawyers one of
the legal implications of doing that
then came the business what are the
business implications of doing that
and you know this is awesome that with a
good dose of a lot of people just asking
if we were completely crazy but there
was one conversation that kept floating
to the surface in every dialogue that we
would have the realization that if we
didn't do this then we were part of the
problem so we did something unheard of
in the security industry we started
publishing over 700 terabytes of
actionable threat intelligence data
including information on real-time
attacks that can be used to stop
cybercrime in its tracks and to date
over 4,000 organizations are leveraging
this data including how for the fortune
100 and our hope as a next step is to
get all of those organizations to join
us in the fight and do the same thing
and share their information on when and
how they're being attacked as well we
all have the opportunity to stop it and
we already all know how all we have to
do is look to the response that we see
in the world of health care and how they
respond to a pandemic
simply put we need to be open and
collaborative thank you
[Applause]